h1(#user-self-registration). User Self Registration

h2(#summary). Summary

This plugin is designed to enable community driven sites. Users will be able to register themselves for an account to access the system. This plugin is compatible with the ign_user_password plugin alternate user table. This plugin provides user side tags for generating an html form where users can edit their account information.

h2(#author-contact). Author Contact

"Michael Manfre":mailto:mmanfre@gmail.com?subject=Textpattern%20mem_self_register%20plugin
"$":http://manfre.net

h2(#license). License

This plugin is licensed under the "GPLv2":http://www.fsf.org/licensing/licenses/info/GPLv2.html.

h2(#installation). Installation

This plugin requires the plugin mem_form "(help)":./index.php?event=plugin&step=plugin_help&name=mem_form.

"Start Install Wizard":./index.php?event=self-reg&step=preinstall&area=admin

h2(#tags). Tags

* "mem_self_register_form":#mem_self_register_form
* "mem_change_password_form":#mem_change_password_form
* "mem_self_user_edit_form":#mem_self_user_edit_form
* "mem_profile":#mem_profile
* "self_register_email_message":#self_register_email_message
* "self_register_status_message":#self_register_status_message
* "if_self_registered":#if_self_registered
* "mem_self_password_reset_form":#mem_self_password_reset_form
* "mem_self_user_count":#mem_self_user_count

h3(#mem_self_register_form). mem_self_register_form

This will output an HTML form that will allow a user to register themselves with an account.

* form string Specifies which form contains the HTML form template. Default is "self_register_form".
* email_form string Specifies which form contains the email message template that will be sent to a user upon registering. Default is "self_register_email".
* from string Registration email's From address. Defaults to mem_self_admin_email preference.
* reply string Registration email's Reply To address.
* subject string Subject for email. Default is "[SITENAME] Your Login Info"
* login_url string URL to the login page. Default is Texpattern admin interface.

Starter Template:

<code> <fieldset> <legend>Register</legend> <txp:mem_form_text name="RealName" label="Full Name" /><br /> <br />

<txp:mem_form_text name="name" label="Username" /><br /> <br />

<txp:mem_form_email name="email" label="E-Mail" /><br /> <br />

<txp:mem_form_submit /> </fieldset>
</code>

Template tags that can be used within the email template form. In addition to the tags listed below, any other Textpattern tag can be used.

* <code><txp:mem_name /></code>  --  The name submitted by the user.
* <code><txp:mem_username /></code>  --  The username submitted by the user.
* <code><txp:mem_email /></code>  --  The email address submitted by the user.
* <code><txp:mem_password /></code>  --  The password generated for the user.
* <code><txp:mem_sitename /></code>  --  The site name as specified in the Site Configuration (prefs tab).
* <code><txp:mem_siteurl /></code>  --  The url to the front page of this site.
* <code><txp:mem_loginurl /></code>  --  The url to the Textpattern log in page.
* <code><txp:mem_admin_name /></code>  --  The name of the administrative contact. This will automatically be in the email from field.
* <code><txp:mem_admin_email /></code>  --  The email address of the administrative contact. This will automatically be in the email from field.

Starter Template:

<code>
Dear <txp:mem_name />, Thank you for registering for <txp:mem_sitename />. Below are you user account details.

Username: <txp:mem_username />
Password: <txp:mem_password />
Site URL: <txp:mem_siteurl />
Login URL: <txp:mem_loginurl />

Sincerely,
<txp:mem_admin_name />
Email: <txp:mem_admin_email />
</code>

Example:

==<code>
<txp:mem_self_register_form from="admin@mysite.com" subject="[MySite] Your account info" thanks_form="registered_form"> <fieldset> <legend>Register</legend> <txp:mem_form_text name="RealName" label="Full Name" /><br /> <br />

<txp:mem_form_text name="name" label="Username" /><br /> <br />

<txp:mem_form_email name="email" label="E-Mail" /><br /> <br />

<txp:mem_form_submit /> </fieldset>
</txp:mem_self_register_form>
</code>==

<hr />

h3(#if_self_registered). if_self_registered

This will output the contents of the tag if the user has already been registered. To work properly, this requires browser cookies after the initial form submission. This tag supports <code><txp:else /></code>

Example:

<code> <txp:if_self_registered> You already have an account. <txp:else /> ...registration form... </txp:if_self_registered> </code>

h3(#mem_self_change_password_form). mem_self_change_password_form

This tag allows a change password form to be displayed on the user portion of the website. This is meant to be used with the ign_password_protect plugin. This tag supports the tag txp:mem_profile (see below).

* form string Specifies which form contains the HTML form template.
* email_form string Specifies which form contains the email message template that will be sent to a user upon registering.
* from string Registration email's From address. Defaults to mem_self_admin_email preference.
* reply string Registration email's Reply To address.
* subject string Subject for email. Default is "[SITENAME] Password Changed"

h3(#mem_self_user_edit_form). mem_self_user_edit_form

This tag allows a form to modify user information to be displayed on the user portion of the website. This is meant to be used with the ign_password_protect plugin. This tag supports the tag txp:mem_profile.

h3(#mem_profile). mem_profile

This tag will output the values of the user's profile.

Tag Attributes:

* *var*  --  Specifies the profile value name to output. Supported values are "user_id", "user", "RealName", "email", and any other db field.
* *form*  --  A form containing other tags to parse.
* *userid*  --  If specified, the profile information for the given user_id will be fetched.
* *user*  --  If specified, the profile information for the user with the given name will be fetched.

Example for non logged in user
<code><txp:mem_profile user="jdoe"> The email address for <txp:mem_profile var="RealName" /> is <txp:mem_profile var="email" />. <txp:else /> I'm sorry, but we do not have a record for this user.
</txp:mem_profile></code>

Example for logged in user
<code>Welcome back <txp:mem_profile var="RealName" /></code>

h3(#mem_self_password_reset_form). mem_self_password_reset_form

This tag will allow a user to request a new password to be sent to their email address.

Tag Attributes:

* *form*  --  The form containing the html form requesting username and email. If not specified, tag contents are used.
* *form_mail*  --  The form used for the confirmation email's message.
* *subject*  --  The confirmation email's subject.
* *from*  --  Email from header
* *reply*  --  Email reply to header.
* *confirm_url*  --  URL that links back to the password reset form (this tag).
* *new_subject*  --  The new password email's subject.
* *new_form_mail*  --  The form used for the new password email's message.
* *check_name*  --  Set to "0" if the form does not contain a username field.
* *check_email*  --  Set to "0" if the form does not contain an email field.

Starter Template
<code>
<txp:mem_self_password_reset_form form_mail="reset_password_form" new_form_mail="new_password_email"> <txp:mem_form_text name="name" label="Username:" /> <br /> <txp:mem_form_text name="email" label="Email Address:" /> <br /> <txp:mem_form_submit name="submit" label="Submit" />
</txp:mem_self_password_reset_form>
</code>

h3(#mem_self_user_count). mem_self_user_count

Returns the number of users.

* user_levels string Comma separated list of user levels that should be included in the count. Default is all "0,1,2,3,4,5,6"
* wraptag string HTML tag to wrap around the result.
* class string CSS class name for wraptag.

